So with that let's get started.
The first thing you'll need to set
up to get the workshop project is
you'll need to install Volta.
And if you've taken
the TypeScript Fundamentals course or
the Intermediate TypeScript course,
we'll be working in exactly the same
repo that you already have.
So you may be able to get away
with skipping these steps.
So, you install Volta.
The purpose of Volta is to make sure we're
all using the same Node.js version and
Yarn version.
If you want to use NVM or
some other tooling, we're gonna be
using Yarn 3.6.4 and
Node 18.18.2, I think.
So if you can give yourself some assurance
that you're using those versions or
if the project happens to work with
your yarn and your node that's great.
But if you have problems running
the project the first thing I
would do is install Volta.
So these are the installation
instructions,
be sure to look at the terminal
output from this command.
And do anything that it
tells you to do at the end.
Sometimes it asks you to put
something in your bashrc or
your cshrc kind of depends
on what shell you're using.
It may ask you to close your terminal and
reopen it so
that little snippet that you drop
into your terminal like startup
script will run and
everything will be set up.
And then you should be able to run volta
install node and it should work like that.
If that runs successfully
you have installed Volta and
you really don't need to
think about it anymore.
It's just gonna automatically
find the versions that
should be using in this project repo and
it'll install them.
So then you're gonna want to check out
the the git repo and it is on Github.
It's
github.com/mike-northtypescript-courses.
So if you were to go to this page,
you could follow
the instructions here where you
clone it using SSH or HTTPS.
If you have problems with SSH keys,
you get an error like that.
Just clone it using HTTPS to be
git clone and then this URL.
Then you'll enter that folder and
you'll run yarn so
just like So if I just cloned it.
You run yarn and you'll know you're using
a modern version of yarn if you see
little codes like this at
the beginning of each line.
If you don't see that, you're probably
using a 1.x version of yarn which is very,
very different than
modern versions of yarn.
It's literally a separate code base.
It's a totally different project.
Some of the commands have parody but
modern yarn doesn't have yarn update,
for example.
But it has a whole bunch
of other cool stuff,
things that will be important for
us in this course.
So you should be able to do this.
3.6.4, 18.18.2 that's my node and
my yarn version.
Dimitar in chat I see like it doesn't
work, Volta doesn't work in WSL Ubuntu.
I'm surprised by that.
I've used Volta there and
it seems to work well for me.
It's possible I have something
already installed that makes it work.
But, yeah modern versions of node and
yarn and it should work.
The key thing I'm gonna insist on really,
you shouldn't be sensitive
to the node version.
As long as you're using a version
newer than 18 you should be fine.
Make sure this doesn't begin with a one.
If this begins with a one,
you're gonna have a bad time.
If this begins with the three,
you will see what I see, right?
And you'll get some benefit of yarn
plugins which are gonna do some
cool stuff for us, but
you can survive without them.
So while y'all are working on that,
let's look at the project
we're gonna be building.
It's a little Slack app.
So Slack who here is anyone unfamiliar
with Slack in the classroom?
Of course not, like it's very
common thing that people use.
For thinking about domain modeling what
are the objects that are important for
a Slack app?
You've got like a message,
a channel, a user.
You've got a team which contains many
channels, teams on the left channels here.
Messages here, this is a user up top,
this like that's the username.
So we're gonna be modeling all of those
things and creating interfaces for
them and
sort of threading them through an app.
Which currently is sort of just JavaScript
style throwing variables through and
hoping that the fields are there
will tighten things up.
And worth noting just to keep the project
simple like some stuff here doesn't work.
You may be able to create messages,
I'm not sure, but that's not important for
the course.
So you can find this project in
the course repo in packages, chat.
So packages/chat that's where you'll find
the source code for the slack project.
So we'll mostly be working in there and
you'll see a file structure that
kind of looks like this, right?
This is a reasonably
well-organized JavaScript project.
We have a source folder that
contains all of our source code,
an index.js entry point,
a folder for low-level utilities.
These are functions that format dates,
things like that.
We have a UI folder for React components
and then we have a data layer,
which effectively the little
functions which when invoked go and
fetch something from an API.
And that API is gonna be
running on your machine.
There's within this project
at the root level there's
it's kind of a cool little setup.
There's a db.json file.
This is your database in here.
It's like every single slack channel,
every single slack message.
So this is a free standing project where
you're running your own database back end.
We're not gonna get into those
too much but they are there.
And of course we're gonna be
focusing mostly on the frontend.
Yeah, sorry so you're going through this.
There's the server and the database.
So there's also an API examples file
which is kind of interesting to look at.
So I'm here in my chat folder and
I have this API_EXAMPLES.http file.
This here is just a text file but
you may notice I've got this little
send request thing running on top.
This is coming from REST Client.
So if you're using VS Code, you'll
be fine if you're not using VS Code,
like if you're a diehard Vim user.
Respects you can you can learn
things that I can't learn.
So, but this is what's generating
these little send request things.
And if I go to packages/chat and
I run this projec we're running yarn dev.
Is after I've run yarn to install
all the other dependencies.
I shouldn't be able to click this, oops,
all right maybe it's not working.
Well it's not important but this is a
great way to have API documentation here.
Maybe I'm running on a different
port at this point but
this is sort of like a little mini
API doc, just as a text file.
This is it's almost like
Postman where you're making
a request to an API of sorts.
Okay, with that let's get
hands on let's start building
a TypeScript library from scratch,
zero to one is what I call this.
>> This Volta thing's pretty cool.
>> It is written in Rust,
and the cool thing about it
is it will install if you like,
grab a project and
I can show you where the Volta
stuff is in the package JSON.
It's down here so Volta finds this and
you don't have either
of these versions and
you just run like yarn install.
It will download yarn 3.6.4 on the fly and
then proceed with invoking
the command that you want it.
>> That's so cool.
>> No middle step so especially for
things like GitHub Actions there's
a Volta GitHub Action there.
You can sort of just toss Volta in
there and then all you need to worry
about is this little bit in your
package.json and it will work properly.
There's no separate line where you're like
go and obtain this thing and set it up and
verify that the that's,
that versions puts up this thing.
>> Yeah, that's huge for Github Actions.
>> It is huge.
I have this testing against multiple node
versions which is makes it really easy.
And then the Volta action you can
even specify which node you want.
So if you have like a matrix of node
compatibility testing you could say like
do 18 and 20.
You can check out the GitHub Actions
on this workshop project if you want
to see how that works.
I also have it testing against a range
of TypeScript compiler versions but
that's not using Volta.
Volta is just for
these kind of toolchain type things.
So I'm just running to test TypeScript,
I'm running like yarnadd_d across
the whole workspace, the whole repo.
And that's what ends up bumping
TypeScript up or down so I can make sure
it's not going to break with a new
versions of TypeScript but I love it.
It's written in Rust so it's super snappy.
It's like really, really fast.
Doesn't really add much overhead at all
on top of what you'd expect to happen
normally.